[Zen2] Update documentation for Zen2 (#34714)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/modules/discovery/publishing.asciidoc

[[cluster-state-publishing]]

> === Cluster state publishing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Publishing the cluster state
```

The master node is the only node in a cluster that can make changes to the
cluster state. The master node processes one batch of cluster state updates at
a time, computing the required changes and publishing the updated cluster state
to all the other nodes in the cluster. Each publication starts with the master

> broadcasting the updated cluster state to all nodes in the cluster, to which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
broadcasting the updated cluster state to all nodes in the cluster.
```

> each node responds with an acknowledgement but does not yet apply the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each node responds with an acknowledgement but does not yet apply the
```

newly-received state. Once the master has collected acknowledgements from

> enough master-eligible nodes the new cluster state is said to be _committed_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enough master-eligible nodes, the new cluster state is said to be _committed_
```

> enough master-eligible nodes the new cluster state is said to be _committed_,

Reviewer: Can you configure how many are "enough"?

and the master broadcasts another message instructing nodes to apply the
now-committed state. Each node receives this message, applies the updated
state, and then sends a second acknowledgement back to the master.

The master allows a limited amount of time for each cluster state update to be

> completely published to all nodes, defined by `cluster.publish.timeout`, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
completely published to all nodes. It is defined by `cluster.publish.timeout`, which
```

defaults to `30s`, measured from the time the publication started. If this time
is reached before the new cluster state is committed then the cluster state

> change is rejected, the master considers itself to have failed, stands down,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
change is rejected and the master considers itself to have failed. It stands down,
```

and starts trying to elect a new master.

> However, if the new cluster state is committed before `cluster.publish.timeout`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the new cluster state is committed before `cluster.publish.timeout`
```

> has elapsed, but before all acknowledgements have been received, then the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
has elapsed, the
```

Author: I see the point of this change but it's not quite what I was trying to say. The master waits for acks, up to the timeout, before proceeding with the next update. I tried different wording in 442a7a76934.

master node considers the change to have succeeded and starts processing and

> publishing the next cluster state update, even though some nodes have not yet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
publishing the next cluster state update. If some acknowledgements have not been received (i.e. some nodes have not yet
```

> confirmed that they have applied the current one. These nodes are said to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
confirmed that they have applied the current update), these nodes are said to be
```

_lagging_ since their cluster states have fallen behind the master's latest
state. The master waits for the lagging nodes to catch up for a further time,

> `cluster.follower_lag.timeout`, which defaults to `90s`, and if a node has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cluster.follower_lag.timeout`, which defaults to `90s`. If a node has
```

still not successfully applied the cluster state update within this time then
it is considered to have failed and is removed from the cluster.

NOTE: Elasticsearch is a peer to peer based system, in which nodes communicate
with one another directly. The high-throughput APIs (index, delete, search) do
not normally interact with the master node. The responsibility of the master

> node is to maintain the global cluster state, and act if nodes join or leave

Reviewer: ```suggestion
node is to maintain the global cluster state and reassign shards when nodes join or leave
```

> the cluster by reassigning shards. Each time the cluster state is changed, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cluster. Each time the cluster state is changed, the
```
